README.md, before:

# Monorobot

A Slackbot for GitHub monorepos. Configure how repo notifications should be routed to specified Slack channels based on file prefixes, issue/PR labels, and CI build statuses.

Check out the [accompanying blog post](https://tech.ahrefs.com/monorobot-a-slack-bot-for-monorepos-374260e2ca43) for an overview of Monorobot.

## Setting Up

Install via OPAM:

```
opam install monorobot
```

Or install dependencies and build locally:

```sh
opam install --deps-only .
make
```

## Running

Run the `_build/default/src/monorobot.exe` binary. The following commands are supported.

- `run`: Launch the HTTP server
- `check_gh <GH_PAYLOAD>`: read a Github notification from a file and display the actions that will be taken (used for testing)
- `check_slack <SLACK_PAYLOAD>`: read a Slack notification from a file and send it to a channel (used for testing)

## Getting Started

1. Commit a **repository configuration** file to the root of your target repository.
2. Place a **secrets** file locally on the server.
3. Configure GitHub
    1. If targeting a private repository, set up a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token) with `repo` scope and store it in the `gh_token` field of the secrets file.
    2. [Create a webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/developers/webhooks-and-events/creating-webhooks#setting-up-a-webhook) for the repository you are targeting. Set the *Payload URL* to be `<server_domain>/github`.
    3. You can optionally [secure the webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/developers/webhooks-and-events/securing-your-webhooks) with a token, and store it in the `gh_hook_token` field of the secrets file.
4. Configure Slack
    1. [Create a Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps?new_app=1).
    2. Click "Install to Workspace", and when prompted to grant permissions to your workspace, click "Allow".
    3. Set up notifications with one of the following methods:
        - **Web API (recommended):** To use Slack's [Web API](https://api.slack.com/web), click on "OAuth & Permissions" in your app dashboard's sidebar. Give your bot a *Bot Token Scope* of [`chat:write`](https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write) (for per-channel authorization) or [`chat:write.public`](https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write.public) (for authorization to all channels). Copy the generated bot token (`xoxb-XXXX`) to the `slack_access_token` field of your secrets file. This token is used by the bot to authenticate to the workspace, and remains valid until the token is revoked or the app is uninstalled. If you use the `chat:write` scope, add the bot to each channel you want to notify.
        - **Incoming Webhooks:** To use [incoming webhooks](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks), enable them in your app dashboard and create one for each channel you want to notify. Store them in the `slack_hooks` field of your secrets file. If you decide to notify additional channels later, you will need to update the secrets file with the new webhooks and restart the server.


### Link Unfurling

You can configure Monorobot to [unfurl GitHub links](https://api.slack.com/reference/messaging/link-unfurling) in Slack messages. Currently, commit, pull request, and issue links are supported.

Note: The `slack_access_token` must be configured in your secrets file for link unfurling. See previous section for details.

1. Give your app `links:read` and `links:write` [permissions](https://api.slack.com/apps).
1. Configure your app to [support the Events API](https://api.slack.com/events-api#prepare). During the [url verification handshake](https://api.slack.com/events-api#the-events-api__subscribing-to-event-types__events-api-request-urls__request-url-configuration--verification__url-verification-handshake), you should tell Slack to direct event notifications to `<server_domain>/slack/events`. Ensure the server is running before triggering the handshake.
1. [Register the GitHub domains](https://api.slack.com/reference/messaging/link-unfurling#configuring_domains) you want to support.

### Documentation

Commit a configuration file to the root of each repository you want to support, and add a secrets file on the bot server itself. Read on for instructions to set up each file:

* [Repository configuration](./documentation/config_docs.md)
* [Secrets](./documentation/secret_docs.md)

## Testing (development)

```sh
curl -X POST \
  http://localhost:8080/github \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'User-Agent: {whatever user agent you define}' \
  -H 'X-Github-Event: pull_request' \
  -H 'X-Hub-Signature: {a signature value you define}' \
  -H 'cache-control: no-cache' \
  -d @mock_payloads/pr_notification.json
```

There are more payloads which will use a different `X-Github-Event` signature:

```
pull_request => mock_payloads/pr_notification.json
push => mock_payloads/push_notification.json
check_suite => mock_payloads/ci_notification.json
```

Commit message:

document additional token requirements for project owners

README.md, after:

# Monorobot

A Slackbot for GitHub monorepos. Configure how repo notifications should be routed to specified Slack channels based on file prefixes, issue/PR labels, and CI build statuses.

Check out the [accompanying blog post](https://tech.ahrefs.com/monorobot-a-slack-bot-for-monorepos-374260e2ca43) for an overview of Monorobot.

## Setting Up

Install via OPAM:

```
opam install monorobot
```

Or install dependencies and build locally:

```sh
opam install --deps-only .
make
```

## Running

Run the `_build/default/src/monorobot.exe` binary. The following commands are supported.

- `run`: Launch the HTTP server
- `check_gh <GH_PAYLOAD>`: read a Github notification from a file and display the actions that will be taken (used for testing)
- `check_slack <SLACK_PAYLOAD>`: read a Slack notification from a file and send it to a channel (used for testing)

## Getting Started

1. Commit a **repository configuration** file to the root of your target repository.
2. Place a **secrets** file locally on the server.
3. Configure GitHub
    1. If targeting a private repository, set up a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token) with `repo` scope and store it in the `gh_token` field of the secrets file.
       To use the "Project Owners" feature, the token owner must have write access to the repository.
    2. [Create a webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/developers/webhooks-and-events/creating-webhooks#setting-up-a-webhook) for the repository you are targeting. Set the *Payload URL* to be `<server_domain>/github`.
    3. You can optionally [secure the webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/developers/webhooks-and-events/securing-your-webhooks) with a token, and store it in the `gh_hook_token` field of the secrets file.
4. Configure Slack
    1. [Create a Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps?new_app=1).
    2. Click "Install to Workspace", and when prompted to grant permissions to your workspace, click "Allow".
    3. Set up notifications with one of the following methods:
        - **Web API (recommended):** To use Slack's [Web API](https://api.slack.com/web), click on "OAuth & Permissions" in your app dashboard's sidebar. Give your bot a *Bot Token Scope* of [`chat:write`](https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write) (for per-channel authorization) or [`chat:write.public`](https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write.public) (for authorization to all channels). Copy the generated bot token (`xoxb-XXXX`) to the `slack_access_token` field of your secrets file. This token is used by the bot to authenticate to the workspace, and remains valid until the token is revoked or the app is uninstalled. If you use the `chat:write` scope, add the bot to each channel you want to notify.
        - **Incoming Webhooks:** To use [incoming webhooks](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks), enable them in your app dashboard and create one for each channel you want to notify. Store them in the `slack_hooks` field of your secrets file. If you decide to notify additional channels later, you will need to update the secrets file with the new webhooks and restart the server.


### Link Unfurling

You can configure Monorobot to [unfurl GitHub links](https://api.slack.com/reference/messaging/link-unfurling) in Slack messages. Currently, commit, pull request, and issue links are supported.

Note: The `slack_access_token` must be configured in your secrets file for link unfurling. See previous section for details.

1. Give your app `links:read` and `links:write` [permissions](https://api.slack.com/apps).
1. Configure your app to [support the Events API](https://api.slack.com/events-api#prepare). During the [url verification handshake](https://api.slack.com/events-api#the-events-api__subscribing-to-event-types__events-api-request-urls__request-url-configuration--verification__url-verification-handshake), you should tell Slack to direct event notifications to `<server_domain>/slack/events`. Ensure the server is running before triggering the handshake.
1. [Register the GitHub domains](https://api.slack.com/reference/messaging/link-unfurling#configuring_domains) you want to support.

### Documentation

Commit a configuration file to the root of each repository you want to support, and add a secrets file on the bot server itself. Read on for instructions to set up each file:

* [Repository configuration](./documentation/config_docs.md)
* [Secrets](./documentation/secret_docs.md)

## Testing (development)

```sh
curl -X POST \
  http://localhost:8080/github \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'User-Agent: {whatever user agent you define}' \
  -H 'X-Github-Event: pull_request' \
  -H 'X-Hub-Signature: {a signature value you define}' \
  -H 'cache-control: no-cache' \
  -d @mock_payloads/pr_notification.json
```

There are more payloads which will use a different `X-Github-Event` signature:

```
pull_request => mock_payloads/pr_notification.json
push => mock_payloads/push_notification.json
check_suite => mock_payloads/ci_notification.json
```
