documentation/config_docs.md, before:

# Repository Configuration

A repository configuration file specifies how notifications should be handled for a given repository. It should be at the root of your
monorepo in the main branch. The bot will look for a `.monorobot.json` file by default, but you can change this behavior with the `--config` flag.

When the bot receives its first incoming GitHub notification, it will query the repository URL to retrieve its configuration file. For subsequent notifications, it will use the cached configuration unless an update is detected.

To update the configuration, simply edit the configuration file and push your changes to GitHub. The bot will detect and apply those changes to the configuration, and will be reflected in the next request onwards.

Refer [here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/developers/webhooks-and-events/webhook-events-and-payloads) for more information on GitHub event payload structure.

## Options

**Example**
```json
{
    "main_branch_name": "develop",
    "prefix_rules": {
        ...
    },
    "label_rules": {
        ...
    },
    "status_rules": {
        ...
    },
    "project_owners": {
        ...
    }
}
```

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `main_branch_name` | main branch used for the repo; filtering notifications about merges of main into other branches, and constraining prefix rule application | main branch related features disabled |
| `label_rules` | label rules config object | required field |
| `prefix_rules` | prefix rules config object | required field |
| `status_rules` | status rules config object | all status notifications are ignored |
| `project_owners` | project owners config object | no project owners are defined |

## Label Options

**Label rules** apply to PR and issue notifications. If a payload matches multiple rules, they are all included.

**Example**
```json
"label_rules": {
    "default_channel": "default",
    "rules": [
        {
            "match": [
                "backend"
            ],
            "channel": "backend"
        },
        {
            "match": [
                "a1"
            ],
            "channel": "a1-bot"
        },
        {
            "match": [
                "a3"
            ],
            "channel": "a3"
        },
        {
            "match": [],
            "ignore": [
                "backend",
                "a1",
                "a3"
            ],
            "channel": "frontend-bot"
        }
    ]
},
```

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `default_channel` | default channel to notify when no rules match | no channels notified when no rules match |
| `rules` | list of `label_rule` objects | required field |

### Label Rule

A **label rule** specifies whether or not a Slack channel should be notified, based on the labels present in the given payload. For each rule, `ignore` is a blacklist of labels that should not notify the rule's channel, and `match` is a whitelist of labels that should. If a label exists in both lists, the `ignore` list takes precedence. If an empty `ignore` list is provided, nothing is ignored. If an empty `match` list is provided, everything is matched. Both are optional; if neither are provided, the rule will always generate a notification for its channel.

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `match` | if notifications have any label in this list, they should be routed to the channel | all labels matched |
| `ignore` | if notifications have any label in this list, they shouldn't be routed to the channel (even if they have any `match` labels) | fall back on `match` field behavior |
| `channel` | channel to notify if the rule is matched | required field |

## Prefix Options

**Prefix rules** apply to push, commit comment, and status notifications. If a filename satisfies a prefix rule, the rule's channel will be notified. If a filename matches multiple rules, only the one that is matched by the *longest prefix* is included.

**Example**
```json
"prefix_rules": {
    "default_channel": "default",
    "filter_main_branch": true,
    "rules": [
        {
            "match": [
                "backend/a1"
            ],
            "channel": "a1"
        },
        {
            "match": [
                "backend/a5",
                "backend/a4"
            ],
            "branch_filters": "any",
            "channel": "backend"
        },
        {
            "channel": "all-push-events"
        }
    ]
},
```
| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `default_channel` | same behavior as label rule `default_channel` |  |
| `filter_main_branch` | if true and `main_branch_name` is declared, use main branch to filter rules that have no local filter; otherwise, don't apply branch filtering and show `distinct` commits only | `false` |
| `rules` | list of `prefix_rule` objects | required field |

### Prefix Rule

A **prefix rule** specifies whether or not a Slack channel should be notified, based on the filenames present in the commits associated with the given payload. The semantics for the `match` and `ignore` fields are the same as those for label rules (see above).

Default behavior is to apply each rule regardless of what branch is pushed, and when a rule is matched, show its `distinct` commits only.
Branch filters limit rule application to selected branches, and shows _all_ commits on match.
The filters can be declared globally with `filter_main_branch` (see above), or locally per rule with `branch_filters`, where the latter takes precedence.
To ignore a globally declared filter for a single rule, declare one locally with value "any", as shown in the example above.

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `match` | if commit files have any prefix in this list, they should be routed to the channel | all prefixes matched |
| `ignore` | if commit files have any prefix in this list, they shouldn't be routed to the channel (even if they have any `match` prefixes) | fall back on `match` field behavior |
| `branch_filters` | consider commits only if pushed ref branch is in this list; set to "any" to ignore `filter_main_branch` for this rule | fall back on `filter_main_branch` field behavior (see above) |
| `channel` | channel to notify if the rule is matched | required field |

## Status Options

Monorobot supports additional behavior for GitHub status notifications, which are typically triggered by CI builds. A payload of this type contains:

- A `context` field, whose value is the name of the CI pipeline the notificiation is about
- A `state` field, whose value is either `success`, `failure`, `pending`, or `error`

The following takes place when a status notification is received.

1. Check whether a status notification should be *allowed* for further processing or *ignored*, according to a list of **status rules**. The bot will check the list *in order*, and use the policy defined by the first rule that the notification satisfies. If no rule matches, the default behavior of the status state is used:
   - `pending`: `ignore`
   - `failure`: `allow`
   - `error`: `allow`
   - `success`: `allow_once`
1. For those payloads allowed by step 1, if it isn't a main branch build notification, route to the default channel to reduce spam in topic channels. Otherwise, check the notification commit's files according to the prefix rules.

Internally, the bot keeps track of the status of the last allowed payload, for a given pipeline and branch. This information is used to evaluate the status rules (see below).

**Example**

```json
"status_rules": {
    "allowed_pipelines": [
        "default",
        "buildkite/monorobot-test"
    ],
    "rules": [
        {
            "on": ["failure"],
            "when": {
                "match": {
                    "field": "description",
                    "re": "^\\(Build #[0-9]+ canceled by .+\\|Failed (exit status 255)\\)$"
                }
            },
            "policy": "ignore"
        },
        { "on": ["pending"], "policy": "ignore"},
        { "on": ["failure", "error"], "policy": "allow"},
        { "on": ["success"], "policy": "allow_once"}
    ]
}
```

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `allowed_pipelines` | a list of pipeline names; if specified, payloads whose pipeline name is not in the list will be ignored immediately, without checking the **status rules** | all pipelines included in the status rule check |
| `rules` | a list of **status rules** to determine whether to *allow* or *ignore* a payload for further processing | required field |

### Status Rules

A **status rule** specifies whether a GitHub status notification should generate a Slack notification, given the notification's status and the last allowed build status. There are three policy options for handling payloads:

- `allow`: Notify every time.
- `ignore`: Suppress every time.
- `allow_once`: Only notify if the last allowed status notification's build status for the given pipeline and branch differs from the current one. Useful for suppressing consecutive build success notifications.

For example, the rule:
```
{ "on": A, "when": B, "policy": C }
```
is interpreted as:

> "on a notification with a build state in `A`, when condition `B` is met, adopt the policy `C`".

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `on` | a list of build states that can trigger this rule | required field |
| `when` | a **status condition** object which, if specified, must be true for the rule to match | no status condition applied |
| `policy` | a policy option (one of `allow`, `ignore`, `allow_once`) | required field |

### Status Conditions

You can optionally provide a **status condition** to specify additional requirements that a notification payload should meet, in order for a status rule's policy to apply.

- `all_of`: Matches if every sub-condition in a list is true. Value should be the list of sub-conditions.
- `one_of`: Matches if at least one sub-condition in a list is true. Value should be the list of sub-conditions.
```json
{
    "all_of/one_of": [ condition1, condition2, ...]
}
```
- `not`: Matches if a sub-condition is false. Value should be the sub-condition.
```json
{
    "not": condition
}
```
- `match`: Matches a text field in the payload against a regular expression. Value should be an object of the form:
```json
{
    "match": {
        "field": "context" | "description" | "target_url",
        "re": string // a regular expression
    }
}
```

## Project Owners

In GitHub, ["code owners"](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) are the users/teams whose review is automatically requested when a PR modifying code in a given directory is opened. **Project owners** behave similarly, with two differences.

- Owners are defined _per PR label_, instead of _per directory_ (or directory pattern)
- Definitions should be placed in the per-repo Monorobot configuration file, instead of a `CODEOWNERS` file

The syntax for listing users is `username`. For teams, it is `org/team-name`.

Note that the owner of the personal access token cannot be a project owner, as GitHub disallows a user from self-requesting a review. Consider provisioning a separate bot user, or authenticating using a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/building-github-apps/authenticating-with-github-apps#accessing-api-endpoints-as-a-github-app) instead.

```json
{
    ...,
    "project_owners": {
        "rules": [
            {
                "label": "Label 1",
                "owners": ["user1", "user2", "org/team1"]
            },
            {
                "label": "Label 2",
                "owners": ["org/team2", "user3"]
            }
        ]
    },
    ...
}
```

Commit message:

docs: describe draft PR behavior

documentation/config_docs.md, after:

# Repository Configuration

A repository configuration file specifies how notifications should be handled for a given repository. It should be at the root of your
monorepo in the main branch. The bot will look for a `.monorobot.json` file by default, but you can change this behavior with the `--config` flag.

When the bot receives its first incoming GitHub notification, it will query the repository URL to retrieve its configuration file. For subsequent notifications, it will use the cached configuration unless an update is detected.

To update the configuration, simply edit the configuration file and push your changes to GitHub. The bot will detect and apply those changes to the configuration, and will be reflected in the next request onwards.

Refer [here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/developers/webhooks-and-events/webhook-events-and-payloads) for more information on GitHub event payload structure.

## Options

**Example**
```json
{
    "main_branch_name": "develop",
    "prefix_rules": {
        ...
    },
    "label_rules": {
        ...
    },
    "status_rules": {
        ...
    },
    "project_owners": {
        ...
    }
}
```

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `main_branch_name` | main branch used for the repo; filtering notifications about merges of main into other branches, and constraining prefix rule application | main branch related features disabled |
| `label_rules` | label rules config object | required field |
| `prefix_rules` | prefix rules config object | required field |
| `status_rules` | status rules config object | all status notifications are ignored |
| `project_owners` | project owners config object | no project owners are defined |

## Label Options

**Label rules** apply to PR and issue notifications. If a payload matches multiple rules, they are all included.

**Example**
```json
"label_rules": {
    "default_channel": "default",
    "rules": [
        {
            "match": [
                "backend"
            ],
            "channel": "backend"
        },
        {
            "match": [
                "a1"
            ],
            "channel": "a1-bot"
        },
        {
            "match": [
                "a3"
            ],
            "channel": "a3"
        },
        {
            "match": [],
            "ignore": [
                "backend",
                "a1",
                "a3"
            ],
            "channel": "frontend-bot"
        }
    ]
},
```

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `default_channel` | default channel to notify when no rules match | no channels notified when no rules match |
| `rules` | list of `label_rule` objects | required field |

### Label Rule

A **label rule** specifies whether or not a Slack channel should be notified, based on the labels present in the given payload. For each rule, `ignore` is a blacklist of labels that should not notify the rule's channel, and `match` is a whitelist of labels that should. If a label exists in both lists, the `ignore` list takes precedence. If an empty `ignore` list is provided, nothing is ignored. If an empty `match` list is provided, everything is matched. Both are optional; if neither are provided, the rule will always generate a notification for its channel.

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `match` | if notifications have any label in this list, they should be routed to the channel | all labels matched |
| `ignore` | if notifications have any label in this list, they shouldn't be routed to the channel (even if they have any `match` labels) | fall back on `match` field behavior |
| `channel` | channel to notify if the rule is matched | required field |

## Prefix Options

**Prefix rules** apply to push, commit comment, and status notifications. If a filename satisfies a prefix rule, the rule's channel will be notified. If a filename matches multiple rules, only the one that is matched by the *longest prefix* is included.

**Example**
```json
"prefix_rules": {
    "default_channel": "default",
    "filter_main_branch": true,
    "rules": [
        {
            "match": [
                "backend/a1"
            ],
            "channel": "a1"
        },
        {
            "match": [
                "backend/a5",
                "backend/a4"
            ],
            "branch_filters": "any",
            "channel": "backend"
        },
        {
            "channel": "all-push-events"
        }
    ]
},
```
| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `default_channel` | same behavior as label rule `default_channel` |  |
| `filter_main_branch` | if true and `main_branch_name` is declared, use main branch to filter rules that have no local filter; otherwise, don't apply branch filtering and show `distinct` commits only | `false` |
| `rules` | list of `prefix_rule` objects | required field |

### Prefix Rule

A **prefix rule** specifies whether or not a Slack channel should be notified, based on the filenames present in the commits associated with the given payload. The semantics for the `match` and `ignore` fields are the same as those for label rules (see above).

Default behavior is to apply each rule regardless of what branch is pushed, and when a rule is matched, show its `distinct` commits only.
Branch filters limit rule application to selected branches, and shows _all_ commits on match.
The filters can be declared globally with `filter_main_branch` (see above), or locally per rule with `branch_filters`, where the latter takes precedence.
To ignore a globally declared filter for a single rule, declare one locally with value "any", as shown in the example above.

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `match` | if commit files have any prefix in this list, they should be routed to the channel | all prefixes matched |
| `ignore` | if commit files have any prefix in this list, they shouldn't be routed to the channel (even if they have any `match` prefixes) | fall back on `match` field behavior |
| `branch_filters` | consider commits only if pushed ref branch is in this list; set to "any" to ignore `filter_main_branch` for this rule | fall back on `filter_main_branch` field behavior (see above) |
| `channel` | channel to notify if the rule is matched | required field |

## Status Options

Monorobot supports additional behavior for GitHub status notifications, which are typically triggered by CI builds. A payload of this type contains:

- A `context` field, whose value is the name of the CI pipeline the notificiation is about
- A `state` field, whose value is either `success`, `failure`, `pending`, or `error`

The following takes place when a status notification is received.

1. Check whether a status notification should be *allowed* for further processing or *ignored*, according to a list of **status rules**. The bot will check the list *in order*, and use the policy defined by the first rule that the notification satisfies. If no rule matches, the default behavior of the status state is used:
   - `pending`: `ignore`
   - `failure`: `allow`
   - `error`: `allow`
   - `success`: `allow_once`
1. For those payloads allowed by step 1, if it isn't a main branch build notification, route to the default channel to reduce spam in topic channels. Otherwise, check the notification commit's files according to the prefix rules.

Internally, the bot keeps track of the status of the last allowed payload, for a given pipeline and branch. This information is used to evaluate the status rules (see below).

**Example**

```json
"status_rules": {
    "allowed_pipelines": [
        "default",
        "buildkite/monorobot-test"
    ],
    "rules": [
        {
            "on": ["failure"],
            "when": {
                "match": {
                    "field": "description",
                    "re": "^\\(Build #[0-9]+ canceled by .+\\|Failed (exit status 255)\\)$"
                }
            },
            "policy": "ignore"
        },
        { "on": ["pending"], "policy": "ignore"},
        { "on": ["failure", "error"], "policy": "allow"},
        { "on": ["success"], "policy": "allow_once"}
    ]
}
```

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `allowed_pipelines` | a list of pipeline names; if specified, payloads whose pipeline name is not in the list will be ignored immediately, without checking the **status rules** | all pipelines included in the status rule check |
| `rules` | a list of **status rules** to determine whether to *allow* or *ignore* a payload for further processing | required field |

### Status Rules

A **status rule** specifies whether a GitHub status notification should generate a Slack notification, given the notification's status and the last allowed build status. There are three policy options for handling payloads:

- `allow`: Notify every time.
- `ignore`: Suppress every time.
- `allow_once`: Only notify if the last allowed status notification's build status for the given pipeline and branch differs from the current one. Useful for suppressing consecutive build success notifications.

For example, the rule:
```
{ "on": A, "when": B, "policy": C }
```
is interpreted as:

> "on a notification with a build state in `A`, when condition `B` is met, adopt the policy `C`".

| value | description | default |
|-|-|-|
| `on` | a list of build states that can trigger this rule | required field |
| `when` | a **status condition** object which, if specified, must be true for the rule to match | no status condition applied |
| `policy` | a policy option (one of `allow`, `ignore`, `allow_once`) | required field |

### Status Conditions

You can optionally provide a **status condition** to specify additional requirements that a notification payload should meet, in order for a status rule's policy to apply.

- `all_of`: Matches if every sub-condition in a list is true. Value should be the list of sub-conditions.
- `one_of`: Matches if at least one sub-condition in a list is true. Value should be the list of sub-conditions.
```json
{
    "all_of/one_of": [ condition1, condition2, ...]
}
```
- `not`: Matches if a sub-condition is false. Value should be the sub-condition.
```json
{
    "not": condition
}
```
- `match`: Matches a text field in the payload against a regular expression. Value should be an object of the form:
```json
{
    "match": {
        "field": "context" | "description" | "target_url",
        "re": string // a regular expression
    }
}
```

## Project Owners

In GitHub, ["code owners"](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) are the users/teams whose review is automatically requested when a PR modifying code in a given directory is opened. **Project owners** behave similarly, with two differences.

- Owners are defined _per PR label_, instead of _per directory_ (or directory pattern)
- Definitions should be placed in the per-repo Monorobot configuration file, instead of a `CODEOWNERS` file

Draft PR behavior is similar to code owners. From GitHub documentation:

> Code owners are not automatically requested to review draft pull requests. [...] When you mark a draft pull request as ready for review, code owners are automatically notified.

The syntax for listing users is `username`. For teams, it is `org/team-name`.

Note that the owner of the personal access token cannot be a project owner, as GitHub disallows a user from self-requesting a review. Consider provisioning a separate bot user, or authenticating using a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/building-github-apps/authenticating-with-github-apps#accessing-api-endpoints-as-a-github-app) instead.

```json
{
    ...,
    "project_owners": {
        "rules": [
            {
                "label": "Label 1",
                "owners": ["user1", "user2", "org/team1"]
            },
            {
                "label": "Label 2",
                "owners": ["org/team2", "user3"]
            }
        ]
    },
    ...
}
```
